README.md, before:

# Supla ❤️ Open HAB

Welcome to the integration of Supla with OpenHAB! Supla is a versatile platform designed for smart home automation,
offering a wide range of devices that enhance the convenience and efficiency of your living space. This OpenHAB plugin
brings the power of Supla to your home automation system, supporting two types of devices: cloud-based and native.
Cloud-based devices leverage Supla's robust cloud infrastructure for seamless connectivity and remote access, while
native devices operate directly within your local network, ensuring rapid response times and offline capabilities.
Together, these options provide flexibility and reliability for all your smart home needs.

## Native Server

This binding supports Supla native devices using the native protocol, allowing the binding to act as a server and
enabling direct communication with your Supla devices without the need for a third-party server.

By using the native protocol, all interactions with your Supla devices are contained within your local network. This
approach offers several benefits, including increased security, reduced latency, and the ability to continue operating
even if your internet connection is down. This setup ensures that your smart home system remains efficient, reliable,
and responsive at all times.

However, it's important to note that by opting for this setup, you lose the integration with Supla Cloud. This means you
won't have remote access through the Supla Cloud app or benefit from cloud-based services and updates provided by Supla.
Ensure this trade-off aligns with your smart home requirements before proceeding with the native device configuration.

## Cloud

To connect your Supla cloud devices to OpenHAB, you'll need to use the Supla Cloud Bridge. This bridge facilitates
communication between OpenHAB and Supla's cloud infrastructure. The first step in setting up this connection is to
generate an OAuth token from the Supla Cloud.

Follow these steps to generate your OAuth token:

1. Visit the Supla Cloud security page at https://cloud.supla.org/security/personal-access-tokens.
2. Create a new personal access token by following the instructions on the page.
3. An example token might look like
this: `MzI4YjJiYTdmMjF4MDY3NDZmMmE5NDUyZTEnOTc2ZThwNjc0Yjc0Y1lhMjc0NjViDGM5ZVQwMzBkMTAmMzg1Ng.aHR0cHM6Ly9zdnIxLnN1cGxhLm9yZw==`.

### Cloud API Limits

It's important to be aware that the Supla Cloud API has limits on the number of invocations per hour. By default, this
limit is set to **2000 requests per hour**. If you find that you are exceeding this limit, you may encounter issues with
connectivity and data updates.

To monitor your API usage and check your current limits, you can
visit [https://cloud.supla.org/account](https://cloud.supla.org/account). Navigate to **Account > Show my limits** to
see your API invocation details.
![Limits page in Sula Cloud](imgs/limits.png)

If you consistently exceed the 2000 requests per hour limit, you can request an increase from Supla administrators.
Alternatively, you can adjust the refresh interval and cache eviction settings in the bridge properties within OpenHAB.
By increasing the refresh interval and managing cache settings, you can reduce the frequency of API calls, ensuring you
stay within the allowable limits and maintain smooth operation of your smart home system.
![Usage of API calls in OpenHAB](imgs/remaining-api-calls.png)

## Comparison: Native vs. Cloud Approach

| Aspect               | Native                                    | Cloud              |
|----------------------|-------------------------------------------|--------------------|
| Request Limits       | ✅ None                                    | ❌ 2000 req/h limit |
| Response Time        | ✅ Faster                                  | ❌ Slower           |
| Supla Application    | ❌ Not compatible                          | ✅ Compatible       |
| Online Access        | ❌/✅ None (Can be achieved with myOpenHAB) | ✅ Available        |
| Internet Requirement | ✅ Not required                            | ❌ Required         |

When deciding between a native or cloud approach for integrating Supla devices into your OpenHAB system, consider
factors such as request limits, response time, compatibility with Supla applications, online access requirements, and
the need for internet connectivity. Choose the approach that best aligns with your smart home setup and preferences.

## Installation

There are three ways to install the OpenHAB plugin for Supla:

1. **From Marketplace (Recommended):**
Install the plugin directly from OpenHAB's Marketplace. Simply search for "Supla" in the Marketplace and follow the
installation instructions. Please note that this solution might not be immediately available, as it is pending
approval.

2. **Install via Karaf's `bundle:install`:**
If you prefer a manual installation method, you can install the plugin using Karaf's `bundle:install` command. This
method allows you to directly add the plugin bundle to your OpenHAB installation.

3. **Download JAR File from Releases Page:**
Alternatively, you can download the JAR file from the official GitHub releases page
at https://github.com/magx2/openhab-supla/releases. Once downloaded, place the JAR file in the addons folder within
your OpenHAB installation directory. For more information on manually provided add-ons, refer to the OpenHAB
documentation [here](https://www.openhab.org/docs/configuration/addons.html#through-manually-provided-add-ons).

Choose the installation method that best fits your preferences and requirements to get started with integrating Supla
devices into your OpenHAB environment.

## FAQ 🤔

### SSL Problem

In some Java environments, unlimited cryptography might be turned off. To enable it, you need to set the `crypto.policy`
to `unlimited`.

For more information, you can read the
post [Enabling Unlimited Strength Cryptography in Java](https://www.baeldung.com/jce-enable-unlimited-strength).

**Note:** In a Docker environment, it is sufficient to set the environment variable `CRYPTO_POLICY` to `unlimited`.

### Disabled algorithms

This chapter provides instructions on how to enable TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1, which are disabled by default starting from
Java 8.

#### Enabling TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1

Follow the steps below to enable TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1:

1. Navigate to the `java.security` file located in your Java installation directory. The file can be found in either of
the following paths:
	- `$JAVA_HOME/conf/security`
	- `$JAVA_HOME/lib/security`

2. Open the `java.security` file and locate the `jdk.tls.disabledAlgorithms` property.

3. Remove `SSLv3`, `TLSv1`, and `TLSv1.1` from the `jdk.tls.disabledAlgorithms` property.

4. Save and close the `java.security` file.

##### Docker 🐳

1. Log in into container: `docker exec -it <docker-container-id> /bin/bash`
2. Go to folder with `java.security`: `cd /usr/lib/jvm/java-17-openjdk-amd64/conf/security`
3. Do a backup: `cp java.security java.security.bak`
4. Check current settings: `cat java.security | grep jdk.tls.disabledAlgorithms`
5. Replace
it: `sed -i 's/jdk.tls.disabledAlgorithms=SSLv3, TLSv1, TLSv1.1, RC4, DES, MD5withRSA, \\/jdk.tls.disabledAlgorithms=RC4, DES, MD5withRSA, \\/g' java.security`
6. Check changed settings: `cat java.security | grep jdk.tls.disabledAlgorithms`
7. Exit and restart docker container

#### Restarting OpenHAB

After enabling TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1, a restart of OpenHAB is required for the changes to take effect. Please follow the
standard procedure for restarting your OpenHAB instance.

**Note:** Always ensure to backup any files or settings before making changes. This will help you to restore the
original settings if something goes wrong.

## Support ❤️

If you want to support the author of this binding, buy him a coffee:

[![ko-fi](https://ko-fi.com/img/githubbutton_sm.svg)](https://ko-fi.com/S6S8UBWWY) <a href="https://buycoffee.to/magx2" target="_blank"><img src="https://buycoffee.to/btn/buycoffeeto-btn-primary.svg" alt="Postaw mi kawę na buycoffee.to" width="150"></a>

Commit message:

Add info about manual installation

README.md, after:

# Supla ❤️ Open HAB

Welcome to the integration of Supla with OpenHAB! Supla is a versatile platform designed for smart home automation,
offering a wide range of devices that enhance the convenience and efficiency of your living space. This OpenHAB plugin
brings the power of Supla to your home automation system, supporting two types of devices: cloud-based and native.
Cloud-based devices leverage Supla's robust cloud infrastructure for seamless connectivity and remote access, while
native devices operate directly within your local network, ensuring rapid response times and offline capabilities.
Together, these options provide flexibility and reliability for all your smart home needs.

## Native Server

This binding supports Supla native devices using the native protocol, allowing the binding to act as a server and
enabling direct communication with your Supla devices without the need for a third-party server.

By using the native protocol, all interactions with your Supla devices are contained within your local network. This
approach offers several benefits, including increased security, reduced latency, and the ability to continue operating
even if your internet connection is down. This setup ensures that your smart home system remains efficient, reliable,
and responsive at all times.

However, it's important to note that by opting for this setup, you lose the integration with Supla Cloud. This means you
won't have remote access through the Supla Cloud app or benefit from cloud-based services and updates provided by Supla.
Ensure this trade-off aligns with your smart home requirements before proceeding with the native device configuration.

## Cloud

To connect your Supla cloud devices to OpenHAB, you'll need to use the Supla Cloud Bridge. This bridge facilitates
communication between OpenHAB and Supla's cloud infrastructure. The first step in setting up this connection is to
generate an OAuth token from the Supla Cloud.

Follow these steps to generate your OAuth token:

1. Visit the Supla Cloud security page at https://cloud.supla.org/security/personal-access-tokens.
2. Create a new personal access token by following the instructions on the page.
3. An example token might look like
this: `MzI4YjJiYTdmMjF4MDY3NDZmMmE5NDUyZTEnOTc2ZThwNjc0Yjc0Y1lhMjc0NjViDGM5ZVQwMzBkMTAmMzg1Ng.aHR0cHM6Ly9zdnIxLnN1cGxhLm9yZw==`.

### Cloud API Limits

It's important to be aware that the Supla Cloud API has limits on the number of invocations per hour. By default, this
limit is set to **2000 requests per hour**. If you find that you are exceeding this limit, you may encounter issues with
connectivity and data updates.

To monitor your API usage and check your current limits, you can
visit [https://cloud.supla.org/account](https://cloud.supla.org/account). Navigate to **Account > Show my limits** to
see your API invocation details.
![Limits page in Sula Cloud](imgs/limits.png)

If you consistently exceed the 2000 requests per hour limit, you can request an increase from Supla administrators.
Alternatively, you can adjust the refresh interval and cache eviction settings in the bridge properties within OpenHAB.
By increasing the refresh interval and managing cache settings, you can reduce the frequency of API calls, ensuring you
stay within the allowable limits and maintain smooth operation of your smart home system.
![Usage of API calls in OpenHAB](imgs/remaining-api-calls.png)

## Comparison: Native vs. Cloud Approach

| Aspect               | Native                                    | Cloud              |
|----------------------|-------------------------------------------|--------------------|
| Request Limits       | ✅ None                                    | ❌ 2000 req/h limit |
| Response Time        | ✅ Faster                                  | ❌ Slower           |
| Supla Application    | ❌ Not compatible                          | ✅ Compatible       |
| Online Access        | ❌/✅ None (Can be achieved with myOpenHAB) | ✅ Available        |
| Internet Requirement | ✅ Not required                            | ❌ Required         |

When deciding between a native or cloud approach for integrating Supla devices into your OpenHAB system, consider
factors such as request limits, response time, compatibility with Supla applications, online access requirements, and
the need for internet connectivity. Choose the approach that best aligns with your smart home setup and preferences.

## Installation

There are three ways to install the OpenHAB plugin for Supla:

1. **From Marketplace (Recommended):**
Install the plugin directly from OpenHAB's Marketplace. Simply search for "Supla" in the Marketplace and follow the
installation instructions. Please note that this solution might not be immediately available, as it is pending
approval.

2. **Install via Karaf's `bundle:install`:**
If you prefer a manual installation method, you can install the plugin using Karaf's `bundle:install` command. This
method allows you to directly add the plugin bundle to your OpenHAB installation.
   1. [Log in to Karaf console](https://www.openhab.org/docs/administration/console.html)
   2. Check is a Supla bundle is not installed: `bundle:list`
      1. (Optional) Uninstall previous bundle: `bundle:uninstall <pid>`
   3. Install: `bundle:install -s url:https://github.com/magx2/openhab-supla/releases/download/openhab-supla-X.Y.Z/openhab-supla-X.Y.Z.jar`
   4. Check if installation was successful: `bundle:list`

3. **Download JAR File from Releases Page:**
Alternatively, you can download the JAR file from the official GitHub releases page
at https://github.com/magx2/openhab-supla/releases. Once downloaded, place the JAR file in the addons folder within
your OpenHAB installation directory. For more information on manually provided add-ons, refer to the OpenHAB
documentation [here](https://www.openhab.org/docs/configuration/addons.html#through-manually-provided-add-ons).

Choose the installation method that best fits your preferences and requirements to get started with integrating Supla
devices into your OpenHAB environment.

## FAQ 🤔

### SSL Problem

In some Java environments, unlimited cryptography might be turned off. To enable it, you need to set the `crypto.policy`
to `unlimited`.

For more information, you can read the
post [Enabling Unlimited Strength Cryptography in Java](https://www.baeldung.com/jce-enable-unlimited-strength).

**Note:** In a Docker environment, it is sufficient to set the environment variable `CRYPTO_POLICY` to `unlimited`.

### Disabled algorithms

This chapter provides instructions on how to enable TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1, which are disabled by default starting from
Java 8.

#### Enabling TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1

Follow the steps below to enable TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1:

1. Navigate to the `java.security` file located in your Java installation directory. The file can be found in either of
the following paths:
	- `$JAVA_HOME/conf/security`
	- `$JAVA_HOME/lib/security`

2. Open the `java.security` file and locate the `jdk.tls.disabledAlgorithms` property.

3. Remove `SSLv3`, `TLSv1`, and `TLSv1.1` from the `jdk.tls.disabledAlgorithms` property.

4. Save and close the `java.security` file.

##### Docker 🐳

1. Log in into container: `docker exec -it <docker-container-id> /bin/bash`
2. Go to folder with `java.security`: `cd /usr/lib/jvm/java-17-openjdk-amd64/conf/security`
3. Do a backup: `cp java.security java.security.bak`
4. Check current settings: `cat java.security | grep jdk.tls.disabledAlgorithms`
5. Replace
it: `sed -i 's/jdk.tls.disabledAlgorithms=SSLv3, TLSv1, TLSv1.1, RC4, DES, MD5withRSA, \\/jdk.tls.disabledAlgorithms=RC4, DES, MD5withRSA, \\/g' java.security`
6. Check changed settings: `cat java.security | grep jdk.tls.disabledAlgorithms`
7. Exit and restart docker container

#### Restarting OpenHAB

After enabling TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1, a restart of OpenHAB is required for the changes to take effect. Please follow the
standard procedure for restarting your OpenHAB instance.

**Note:** Always ensure to backup any files or settings before making changes. This will help you to restore the
original settings if something goes wrong.

## Support ❤️

If you want to support the author of this binding, buy him a coffee:

[![ko-fi](https://ko-fi.com/img/githubbutton_sm.svg)](https://ko-fi.com/S6S8UBWWY) <a href="https://buycoffee.to/magx2" target="_blank"><img src="https://buycoffee.to/btn/buycoffeeto-btn-primary.svg" alt="Postaw mi kawę na buycoffee.to" width="150"></a>
